After creating the Spring Data REST service,
the next step is to register the service using the Eureka Client.
Now let's turn this items,
micro service into Eurereka Client.
Doing this will cause the service to act like a Spring Discovery Client
and it will register itself in the Eureka Server attached to this service.
So if you remember,
on the spring Eureka dashboard,
right now there are no instances currently registered.
So let's get our microservices register.
Let's navigate back to intelJ.
The first step is in the palm file.
We have to add the correct dependencies.
So I have them here already.
Let's uncomment them.
So having this Spring Discovery Client here,
spring client started netflix-eureka-client,
let's import the changes,
this will make the service register itself.
We also need the spring-cloud-starter config,
and then from a dependency management perspective,
let's include the spring cloud starter parent and import the changes.
The next step is in the Spring Boot application,
microservices application.java navigate there.
So in the past,
we've needed to annotate this main spring class with this @EnableEurekaClient,
but now it's optional because of the dependencies that we have on the class path.
But I like to include it just to make the code more verbose,
and let's add the necessary imports back that we need for that annotation.
The next step is to set up the application properties file.
So let's navigate there.
Down here, let's uncomment out all of the Eureka configuration items,
and let's talk about each one.
First, this is the application name.
So the application name uniquely identifies
the client in the list of registered applications.
So we're calling this microservice, item-service.
We're setting up the server port to be 8762,
and then here we're adding the Eureka Client, the service URL.
Remember, in the previous example we used 8761,
that's the location of our Eureka Service,
and then we're adding here the prefer IP address equals true,
and that's all we need to do.
So let's run this microservices application.
Now, this is going to launch the micro service application,
and the service is going to register itself using the Eureka Client.
So when we navigate back to the Eureka dashboard,
we should see this instance registered.
So I'll give it a second to actually launch,
and then let's navigate back to the Eureka Service dashboard and let's do a refresh,
and now notice here in the instances currently registered section,
we now have our ITEM-SERVICE microservice.
The next step is to discover and invoke item service without the hard-coded URL path.
Typically, this endpoint will use the service discovery style URL using
the application name instead of the full URL with a host and port as shown here.
So after some additional configuration,
you would see something like this.
Clearly, we are using only the service name,
item-service in place of the host and port.
This will be handled internally by the Spring framework,
the Eureka Server and the rest template together.